.\"
.\" $Id: roocp.1
.\"
.TH ROOCP 1 "Version 6" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)

.SH NAME
roocp \- Command line to copy objects from ROOT files into an other

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroocp\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fISOURCEFILE:OBJECT\fR]... [\fIDESTFILE:DIRECTORY\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBroocp\fR is one of the ROOT command line tools. These command lines are
designed to access ROOT file contents without the need to write code. It uses
the \fBROOT\fR framework. For more information on \fBROOT\fR, please refer to
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR.
.PP
\fBroocp\fR is used to copy objects from ROOT files into an other. By default
the destination file is created if not already exists and updated else. To
recreate the destination file, see the option \-\-recreate. It supports regular
expressions. See the section example for the syntax.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.BR \-c " " \fICOMPRESS\fR ", " \-\-compress " " \fICOMPRESS\fR
Change the compression level (from 0 to 9) of the destination file.
   \fICOMPRESS\fR = 0, objects written to this file will not be compressed.
   \fICOMPRESS\fR = 1, minimal compression level but fast.
   \fICOMPRESS\fR = 9, maximal compression level but slow.
.TP
.BR \-\-recreate
Recreate the destination file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B roocp source.root:hist* dest.root
.PP
Copy all histograms whose named starts with 'hist' from 'source.root' to 'dest.root'.
.PP
.B roocp source1.root:hist1 source2.root:hist2 dest.root
.PP
Copy histograms 'hist1' from 'source1.root' and 'hist2' from 'source2.root' to 'dest.root'.
.PP
.B roocp --recreate source.root:hist dest.root
.PP
Recreate the destination file 'dest.root' and copy the histogram named 'hist'
from 'source.root' into it.
.PP
.B roocp -c 1 source.root:hist dest.root
.PP
Change the compression factorq of the destination file 'dest.root' and copy the
histogram named 'hist' from 'source.root' into it. For more information about
compression settings of ROOT file, please look at the reference guide available
on the ROOT site.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Julien Ripoche <julien.ripoche@cern.ch>.
