.\"
.\" $Id: roomkdir.1
.\"
.TH ROOMKDIR 1 "Version 6" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)

.SH NAME
roomkdir \- Command line to add directories in ROOT files

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroomkdir\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILE:OBJECT\fR]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBroomkdir\fR is one of the ROOT command line tools. These command lines are
designed to access ROOT file contents without the need to write code. It uses
the \fBROOT\fR framework. For more information on \fBROOT\fR, please refer to
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR.
.PP
\fBroomkdir\fR is used to add directories in ROOT files. ROOT files are created if
do not already exist and updated otherwise. See the section example for the syntax.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-p ", " \-\-parents
Create intermediate directories as required. No error will be reported if a
directory given as an operand already exists.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B roomkdir example.root:dir
.PP
Add the directory 'dir' to the ROOT file 'example.root'.
.PP
.B roomkdir example.root:dir1/dir2
.PP
Add the directory 'dir2' in 'dir1' which is into the ROOT file 'example.root'.
.PP
.B roomkdir -p example.root:dir1/dir2/dir3
.PP
Make parent directories of 'dir3' as needed, no error if existing.
.PP
.B roomkdir example.root
.PP
Create an empty ROOT file named 'example.root' (equivalent of touch command).

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Julien Ripoche <julien.ripoche@u-psud.fr> on 13/08/15.
