.\"
.\" $Id: roomv.1
.\"
.TH ROOMV 1 "Version 6" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)

.SH NAME
roomv \- Command line to move objects from ROOT files to an other

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroomv\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fISOURCEFILE:OBJECT\fR]... [\fIDESTFILE:DIRECTORY\fR]

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBroomv\fR is one of the ROOT command line tools. These command lines are
designed to access ROOT file contents without the need to write code. It uses
the \fBROOT\fR framework. For more information on \fBROOT\fR, please refer to
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR.
.PP
\fBroomv\fR is used to move objects from ROOT files to an other. By default the destination file is created
if does not already exist, and updated otherwise. To recreate the destination file, see the option \-\-recreate.
It supports unix wildcards. Note that this command does not free the corresponding memory space in
source ROOT files. See the section example for the syntax.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.BR \-c " " \fICOMPRESS\fR ", " \-\-compress " " \fICOMPRESS\fR
Change the compression level (from 0 to 9) of the destination file.
   \fICOMPRESS\fR = 0, objects written to this file will not be compressed.
   \fICOMPRESS\fR = 1, minimal compression level but fast.
   \fICOMPRESS\fR = 9, maximal compression level but slow.
.TP
.BR \-\-recreate
Recreate the destination file.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B roomv source.root:hist* dest.root
.PP
Move all histograms whose named starts with 'hist' from 'source.root' to 'dest.root'.
.PP
.B roomv source1.root:hist1 source2.root:hist2 dest.root
.PP
Move histograms 'hist1' from 'source1.root' and 'hist2' from 'source2.root' to 'dest.root'.
.PP
.B roomv --recreate source.root:hist dest.root
.PP
Recreate the destination file 'dest.root' and move the histogram named 'hist' from 'source.root' into it.
.PP
.B roomv -c 1 source.root:hist dest.root
.PP
Change the compression level of the destination file 'dest.root' and move the histogram named 'hist' from 'source.root' into it. For more information about compression settings of ROOT file, please look at the reference guide available on the ROOT site.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Julien Ripoche <julien.ripoche@cern.ch>.

