.\"
.\" $Id: rooprint.1
.\"
.TH ROOPRINT 1 "Version 6" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)

.SH NAME
rooprint \- Command line to print ROOT files contents as postscript, pdf or pictures

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBrooprint\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILE:OBJECT\fR]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBrooprint\fR is one of the ROOT command line tools. These command lines are
designed to access ROOT file contents without the need to write code. It uses
the \fBROOT\fR framework. For more information on \fBROOT\fR, please refer to
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR.
.PP
\fBrooprint\fR is used to print ROOT files contents as PostScript,
PDF or separated binary pictures. It supports unix wildcards.
By default the command generates one file per object.
The output default format is "pdf".
The option "-f" allows to change the output format.
If the format is "ps" of "pdf", it is possible to generate one single
file containing all the images. This is done thans to the option "-o".
See the section example for the syntax.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-d " " \fIDIRECTORY\fR ", " \-\-directory " " \fIDIRECTORY\fR
Put output files in a subdirectory named \fIDIRECTORY\fR.
.TP
.B \-f " " \fIFORMAT\fR ", " \-\-format " " \fIFORMAT\fR
Specify output format \fIFORMAT\fR (such as 'ps', 'eps', 'pdf', 'svg', 'tex', 'gif', 'xpm', 'png', 'jpg'), pdf is the default.
.TP
.B \-o " " \fIOUTPUT\fR ", " \-\-output " " \fIOUTPUT\fR
Merge files in a file named \fI/OUTPUT\fR (only for ps and pdf).

.SH EXAMPLES
.B rooprint example.root:hist
.PP
Create a pdf file named 'hist.pdf' which contain the histogram 'hist'.
.PP
.B rooprint -d histograms example.root:hist
.PP
Create a pdf file named 'hist.pdf' which contain the histogram 'hist' and put it in the directory 'histograms' (create it if not already exists).
.PP
.B rooprint -f png example.root:hist
.PP
Create a png file named 'hist.png' which contain the histogram 'hist'.
.PP
.B rooprint -o histograms.pdf example.root:hist*
.PP
Create a pdf file named 'histograms.pdf' which contain all histograms whose name starts with 'hist'. It works also with postscript.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Julien Ripoche <julien.ripoche@u-psud.fr> on 13/08/15.
