.\"
.\" $Id: roorm.1
.\"
.TH ROORM 1 "Version 6" "ROOT"
.\" NAME should be all caps, SECTION should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parms are allowed: see man(7), man(1)

.SH NAME
roorm \- Command line to remove objects from ROOT files

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBroorm\fR [\fIOPTION\fR]... [\fIFILE:OBJECT\fR]...

.SH "DESCRIPTION"
\fBroorm\fR is one of the ROOT command line tools. These command lines are
designed to access ROOT file contents without the need to write code. It uses
the \fBROOT\fR framework. For more information on \fBROOT\fR, please refer to
\fIhttp://root.cern.ch\fR.
.PP
\fBroorm\fR is used to remove objects from ROOT files. It supports unix wildcards. Note that this command does not free the corresponding memory space in ROOT files. See the section example for the syntax.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -h
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B -i
Displays a confirmation request before deleting.

.SH EXAMPLES
.B roorm example.root:hist
.PP
Remove the histogram named 'hist' from the ROOT file named 'example.root'.
.PP
.B roorm example.root:dir/hist
.PP
Remove the histogram named 'hist' from the direcory named 'dir' inside the ROOT file named 'example.root'.
.PP
.B roorm example.root
.PP
Remove the ROOT file named 'example.root' (it uses directly the command rm).
.PP
.B roorm -i example.root:hist
.PP
Displays a confirmation request before deleting : 'Are you sure to remove 'hist' from 'example.root' ? (y/n) :'.

.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Julien Ripoche <julien.ripoche@u-psud.fr> on 13/08/15.
